## What is Python ?
   * Python is a high-level, interpreted, interactive programming and scripting language.
   * It processes code at runtime using the interpreter.
   * It is an cross-platform language.
   * It is supported by Windows XP to 10, Linux, Macintosh Operating System.
   * User can interact with python interpreter directly via Python Interactive `>>>` or Console.
   * It supports Object-Oriented Programming Style.

## Who created it ?
   * Guido van Rossum in the late eighties and early nineties.

## Where can it be used ?
   * Day-to-day Scripting Tasks
   * Enterprise Automation
   * Distributed Systems
   * Software Architectures
   * Cloud Computing
   * Web Services
   * Text Processing
   * Application Development
   * Web Development
   * Game Development
   * DevOps Lifecycle
   * Scientific Computing
   * Mathematics
   * Big Data Analytics
   * Media Processing
   * Machine Learning
   * Artifical Intelligence
    
## When should I use python ?
   * Implement the Proof of Concept where "THIS WORKS" is quite important.
   * Teach the programming to kids, elderly people and non-programmers.
   * Automation or scripting for daily tasks.
   * Quickly develop and deliver.
   * Leisure projects for fun
   * Experimenting stuff which is additional activity.
   * Where there are too many unknowns, community comes to rescue.

## Why should I use python ?
   * Free and open source
   * Python reads like English
   * Suitable for learning from Kids to Elderly People.
   * It's having a larger community, so more likely you'd get help if you ask questions
   * The more useful projects there are, the more likely someone has already built a function you need.
   * On Angel List, [Python](https://angel.co/skills) is amongst top demanded and the highest average salary offered skill.
  
## What Python is not?
   * Python is not compiled level language, Hence it is slow compared to C++ or C.
   * Python can't be used in the development of real time action and feedback systems.  
   * Hence, Operating systems like Windows, Linux does not use python for the developmwent but C, C++.
   * Its not hardware oriented language. You can't run python programs for controlling hardware without any interface.
   * Due to duck typing and dynamic typing (please Google it) leads to runtime errors.

### Terminology:
  * High Level: Any human who can read and understand spoken language.
  * Interpreter: Translates one statement at a time rather than whole source code file. Hence, slower in execution.
  * Scripting: Work can be done by giving commands of platform like OS, DBMS.
